ICCAD 2004 Faraday Mixed-size Benchmarks with routing information

Faraday Corp. recently released three benchmarks, originally intended
for comparisons between structured and conventional ASICs. We apply to
these benchmarks a standard ASIC design flow to generate five
mixed-size designs. Faraday benchmarks include three commonly-used
functional blocks: (I) 16-bit DSP, (II) 32-bit RISC CPU and (III)
DMA. Other details on these benchmarks such as the EDA Tools used by
Faraday, implementation conditions, settings etc. can be found in on
the faraday web-site. To minimize the impact of routing on the results
of the accounted placement approaches, we avoid clock-tree generation
and power routing in our flows. However, both clock-trees and power
rails can be built on theses benchmarks. Following is the description
of our ASIC flow which we used for generating the mixed-size
benchmarks from the original netlists.

Faraday benchmarks come with the behavioral Verilog descriptions
together with timing constraints and relevant scripts needed for
synthesis. We use the Artisan's 0.13 micron libraries in IBM
Technology for synthesizing these designs under worst-case process
conditions, with the same timing constraints as specified in the
Faraday design documents. Synopsys Design Compiler (v2003.03-2) was
used for synthesis. The embedded memories in these designs were built
using the Artisan Memory Generator.  Artisan limits the size of its
SRAM memories to a minimum word-length of 128 for dual-port memories
and to 256 for single-port memories. This necessitated the need for a
change in the behavioral descriptions of the given designs to account
for larger word-lengths. However, Artisan does give an option of
building register-files which can be used in place of memories for
smaller word-lengths. We explored that option as well and thus came up
with two flavors each for DSP and RISC. One that uses only memories
and the other which uses both memories (for larger word-lengths) and
register-files (for smaller word-lengths).

The gate-level netlists obtained after synthesis are taken through the
automatic place and route (APR) flow using Cadence Silicon Ensemble
Ultra (v5.4.126). We follow the Cadence recommended flow for placing
mixed-size designs and first use the ``qplace noconfig block'' command
to place any macro blocks in the design. After this the macro blocks
are considered fixed, the rows below the macros are cut and the
remaining standard-cells are placed using the command ``qplace
noconfig''. SEUltra also provides an option of concurrent pin
placement during the placement process to minimize wirelength. Apart
from wirelength reasons, we also exercised this option in our flow to
improve routability, which was not being achieved without violations
by a random I/O placement at the time of floorplanning.  The routing
of Artisan memories together with the standard-cells using a
grid-based router like WarpRoute requires certain offsets to be made
in the routing grid to avoid geometry violations. These offsets are
provided by Artisan itself.  The APR flow consists of the classic
steps of floorplanning (creating the layout region) followed by the
placement of blocks and standard-cells with QPlace and culminates with
routing using WarpRoute. Empirical results for the Faraday benchmarks
will be available in ref [1].

There are 5 benchmarks dma, dsp1, dsp2, risc1 and risc2 available in
Bookshelf format and LEF/DEF format.

Disclaimer: If you are using these benchmarks in a publication or a
technical report, please cite the following source [1] in addition to
the URL. They describe how the benchmarks were created.


[1] S. N. Adya, S. Chaturvedi, J. Roy, D. Papa, I. L. Markov,
"Unification of Partitioning, Floorplanning and Placement" ,
International Conference of Computer Aided Design (ICCAD), San Jose,
2004.
